# Greek Polytonic on Openbox

Writing greek polytonic,monotonic and ancient, modern spell checking on LibreOffice and Openbox.

## set the key

Open the file ~/.config/openbox/rc.xml with a text editor. e.g. geany ~/.config/openbox/rc.xml

go to line 294 last row with /keybind and add the lines bellow

```
 <keybind key="C-1">
      <action name="Execute">
        <command>sh ~/.polytonic</command>
        <startupnotify>
          <enabled>yes</enabled>
          <name>Polytonic/Monotonic</name>
        </startupnotify>
      </action>
    </keybind> 
```

Save the file

## Create the polytonic file

Create the file ~/.polytonic

```
geany ~/.polytonic
```

and paste the lines

```
#!/bin/sh
# Dimitris Tzemos <djemos@slackel.gr>
# Αρχείο για αλλαγή μονοτονικού πολυτονικού πληκτρολογίου
# για συγγραφή αρχαίων κειμένων
# File to change from greek monotonic to greek polytonic keyboard
# to type ancient greek documents.
#
check=$(setxkbmap -print | grep 'extended')
if [ -z "$check" ];then
       setxkbmap us,el -variant ,extended
       zenity --info --timeout 1 --text 'Μονοτονικό πληκτρολόγιο ενεργό' 1
else
       setxkbmap us,el -variant ,polytonic
       zenity --info --timeout 1 --text 'Πολυτονικό πληκτρολόγιο ενεργό' 1
fi
if [ -r /etc/X11/Xmodmap ];then xmodmap /etc/X11/Xmodmap;fi
if [ -r "$HOME"/.Xmodmap ];then xmodmap "$HOME"/.Xmodmap;fi
```

Save the file

## Messages

```
Μονοτονικό πληκτρολόγιο ενεργό = Monotonic keyboard active  
Πολυτονικό πληκτρολόγιο ενεργό = Polytonic keyboard active
```

you can change greek messages with english ones above if you like.

Now every time you press Ctrl+1 change between monotonic to polytonic and polytonic to monotonic

## Libreoffice

For greek spelling modern and/or ancient greek download these files and install them from libreoffice tools->extensions

### modern greek

=> http://sourceforge.net/projects/aoo-extensions/files/1411/2/el_gr_v110.oxt/download http://sourceforge.net/projects/aoo-extensions/files/1411/2/el_gr_v110.oxt/download

### ancient greek

=> http://sourceforge.net/projects/aoo-extensions/files/2313/1/grc.oxt/download http://sourceforge.net/projects/aoo-extensions/files/2313/1/grc.oxt/download

Thats it!!! Now can write greek modern or polytonic in libreoffice and also have spell checking.

To write greek polytonic press alt-shift to change keyboard and then press ctrl+1 to go to polytonic.

## Keyboard typing for polytonic characters on LINUX

```
ά= τόνος + γράμμα (γιὰ ὁξεῖα)
ὰ=εἰσαγωγικά + γράμμα (γιὰ βαρεῖα)
ἁ=shift+εἰσαγωγικά+γράμμα
ἀ=shift+τόνος+γράμμα
ᾶ=ἀγκύλη ἀριστερή+γράμμα
ᾳ=ἀγκύλη δεξιά+γράμμα
ᾷ+αγκύλη δεξιά+ἀγκύλη ἀριστερή + γράμμα
ἆ=ἀγκύλη ἀριστερή+shift τόνος+γράμμα
ἇ=ἀγκύλη ἀριστερή+shift εἰσαγωγικά
ἄ=τόνος+shift τόνος+γράμμα
ἅ=shift εἰσαγωγικά+τόνος+γράμμα
ΐ=Alt Gr+τόνος σε μη πολυτονική γραμματοσειρά
```

### Accents

```
; acute accent (ὀξεῖα)
' grave accent (βαρεῖα)
[ circumflex (περισπωμένη)
```

```
;a ά
'a ὰ
[a ᾶ
```

### Breathing

```
: smooth breathing (ψιλὸν πνεῦμα)
" rough breathing (δασὺ πνεῦμα)
```

```
:a ἀ
"a ἁ
```

### Diaresis

```
{ diaresis (διαλυτικά)

 {i  ϊ
```

### Combining: Accent before breathing

```
[:a ἆ
]:a ᾀ
][:a ᾆ
]"a ᾀ
["a ἆ
;:a ἄ
'"a ἃ
':a ἅ
":a ἂ
```

Here is some sample text:

```
Μῆνιν ἄειδε θεὰ Πηληϊάδεω Ἀχιλῆος
οὐλομένην, ἣ μυρί᾿ Ἀχαιοῖς ἄλγε᾿ ἔθηκε,
πολλὰς δ᾿ ἰφθίμους ψυχὰς Ἄϊδι προΐαψεν
ἡρώων, αὐτοὺς δὲ ἑλώρια τεῦχε κύνεσσιν
οἰωνοῖσί τε πᾶσι· Διὸς δ᾿ ἐτελείετο βουλή,        
ἐξ οὗ δὴ τὰ πρῶτα διαστήτην ἐρίσαντε
Ἀτρεΐδης τε ἄναξ ἀνδρῶν καὶ δῖος Ἀχιλλεύς.

Ψάλλε θεά, τον τρομερό θυμόν του Αχιλλέως
Πώς έγινε στους Αχαιούς αρχή πολλών δακρύων.
Που ανδράγαθες ροβόλησε πολλές ψυχές στον Άδη
ηρώων, κι έδωκεν αυτούς αρπάγματα των σκύλων
και των ορνέων – και η βουλή γενόταν του Κρονίδη,
απ’ ότ’, εφιλονίκησαν κι εχωρισθήκαν πρώτα
ο Ατρείδης, άρχος των ανδρών, και ο θείος Αχιλλέας.
```
