# How to Configure Your Own DNS Server With a Static IP

Because a friend had to setup his own dns server using the static ip and installed the ubuntu on the server, so I set up the dns server. The instructions below are for any possible need to do the same. The domain here is my-domain.gr you replace it with your own.

The instructions are simple and not in the correct technical vocabulary to be understand from all. The following instructrions work and of course someone else may use different settings.

It is assumed that on the registrar, we maintain our domain name, we have created a nameserver e.g. ns0.my-domain.gr giving it a static ip x1.x2.x3.x4. We can define a second with the same static ip ns1.my-domain.gr Then in the domain name that we enshrine in the example my-domain.gr put as Domain Name Servers (nameservers) the ns0.my-domain.gr and ns1.my-domain.gr

And also a few hours to 48 hours may need for the nameservers to be updated with the ip corresponding to our ns0.my-domain.gr. So if you change the nameservers of your domain, the transition to the new hosting server will be completed in about 3 to 48 hours, depending on the company that provides you connect the Internet. So making a dig from any pc you will not find the domain if you do not first the nameservers around the world updated.

The following we do in our own server if you run from home and have static ip or do after login to the server we have in such a company, using ssh. Here as an example we use the domain my-domain.gr. You put your own which you have first-register. The static ip is x1.x2.x3.x4. x1.x2.x3.x4 replace it with your static ip The ip of the company's nameservers are k1.k2.k3.k4 m1.m2.m3.m4

Below where is x1, x2, x3, x4, K1, K2, K3, K4, m1, m2, m3, m4 will put the corresponding numbers.

### /etc/named.conf

```
zone "my-domain.gr." IN {
  type master;
  file "/etc/bind/db.my-domain.gr"; // for slackware "/var/named/caching-example/db.my-domain.gr"
};`

zone "x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa" {
 type master;
 file "/etc/bind/rev.x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa"; // for slackware "/var/named/caching-example/rev.x4.x3.x2.in-addr. arpa "
};`

options {
  directory "/var/cache/bind"; // for slackware directory "/var/named";
  notify no;
  forward only;
  forwarders {k1.k2.k3.k4; m1.m2.m3.m4;}; // here we put our name servers that has given the company that runs the server.
};`
```

### /etc/resolv.conf

```
search my-domain.gr 
nameserver x1.x2.x3.x4
nameserver k1.k2.k3.k4
nameserver m1.m2.m3.m4
```

### /var/named/caching-example/db.my-domain.gr

```
;
$ TTL 604800
@ IN SOA ns0.my-domain.gr. my-domain.gr. (
                    2006081401
                    28800
                    3600
                    604800
                    38400
)
IN NS ns0
IN NS ns1
my-domain.gr. IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
my-domain.gr. IN MX 10 mail.my-domain.gr.
ns0 IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
ns1 IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
www IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
mail IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
```

### /var/named/caching-example/rev.x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa

```
$ TTL 1D 
@ IN SOA ns0.my-domain.gr. admin.my-domain.gr. (
                    2006081401 ;
                    28800 ;
                    604800 ;
                    604800 ;
                    86400
)
IN NS ns0.my-domain.gr.
x4 IN PTR my-domain.gr`
```

x4 is the same as the last number of the static ip (x1.x2.x3.x4)

### Test the server

/var/named/caching- example/rev.x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa

```
  OUTPUT:
   loading "x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa" from "/etc/bind/rev.x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa" class "IN"
   zone x4.x3.x2.in-addr.arpa/IN: loaded serial 2006081401
  OK`
```

/var/named/caching-example/db.my-domain.gr

```
  OUTPUT:
  loading "my-domain.gr" from "/etc/bind/db.my-domain.gr" class "IN"
  zone my-domain.gr/IN: loaded serial 2006081401
  OK`
```

### restart the bind

We restart the bind:

```
sudo service restart bind
```

Thefollowing commands from the ssh shell should give us (instead of x1.x2.x3.x4 put the numbers of your static ip.

```
$ nslookup my-domain.gr

  Server: 192.168.1.254
  Address: 192.168.1.254 # 53
  Non-authoritative answer:
  Name: my-domain.gr
  Address: x1.x2.x3.x4`

$ nslookup www.my-domain.gr

  Server: 192.168.1.254
  Address: 192.168.1.254 # 53
  Non-authoritative answer:
  Name: www.my-domain.gr
  Address: x1.x2.x3.x4`

$ nslookup mail.my-domain.gr

  Server: 192.168.1.254
  Address: 192.168.1.254 # 53
  Non-authoritative answer:
  Name: mail.my-domain.gr
  Address: x1.x2.x3.x4`

$ dig www.my-domain.gr

   ; << >> DiG 9.7.0-P1 << >> www.my-domain.gr
   ;; Global options: + cmd
   ;; Got answer:
   ;; - >> HEADER << - opcode: QUERY, status: NOERROR, id: 29213
   ;; Flags: qr aa rd ra; QUERY: 1, ANSWER: 1, AUTHORITY: 2, ADDITIONAL: 2
   ;; QUESTION SECTION:
   ; Www.my-domain.gr. IN A
   ;; ANSWER SECTION:
   www.my-domain.gr. 604800 IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
   ;; AUTHORITY SECTION:
   my-domain.gr. 604800 IN NS ns0.my-domain.gr.
   my-domain.gr. 604800 IN NS ns1.my-domain.gr.
  ;; ADDITIONAL SECTION:
  ns0.my-domain.gr. 604800 IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
  ns1.my-domain.gr. 604800 IN A x1.x2.x3.x4
  ;; Query time: 8 msec
  ;; SERVER: x1.x2.x3.x4 # 53 (x1.x2.x3.x4)
  ;; WHEN: Fri Jun 1 09:46:43 2012
  ;; MSG SIZE rcvd: 120`
```
