# How to Install Xorg on Salix Core

## Installing Xorg

The easiest way to install Xorg on top of Salix Core is to install everything under the /x repository directory. To do that, first update your package database

```
slapt-get -u
```

and then run:

```
slapt-get --install-set x
```

That will install every package that is in the /x directory and will give you a working Xorg. It would be a good idea to install some icon themes, or many apps won't display properly:

```
slapt-get -i icon-naming-utils hicolor-icon-theme tango-icon-theme
```

## Install a Window Manager

Most people would want something other than TWM, so you can install a minimal window manager, like icewm or fluxbox:

```
slapt-get -i icewm
```

or

```
slapt-get -i fluxbox
```

or similar for the one you want to install.

To make that window manager the default for your user, do

```
cp /etc/X11/xinit/xinit.icewm ~/.xinitrc
```

for icewm, or

```
cp /etc/X11/xinit/xinit.fluxbox ~/.xinitrc
```

for fluxbox, or similar for any other window manager, you get the point.

You can now test your favourite minimal window manager with:

```
startx
```

## Graphical login

If you want to have a graphical login screen, you have to install lightdm:

```
slapt-get -i lightdm
```

Perhaps it's a good idea to test lightdm before you set it as default. Start the graphical login manager with:

```
init 4
```

If it works you can edit /etc/inittab and replace the following lines

```
# Default runlevel. (Do not set to 0 or 6)
id:3:initdefault:
```

with

```
# Default runlevel. (Do not set to 0 or 6)
id:4:initdefault:
```

## Additional software

You can then add any graphical apps you might be needing with slapt-get.

You can of course remove any unnecessary Xorg packages that you may not need.

=> /docs/user/remove-unnecessary-xorg-packages remove any unnecessary Xorg packages
