# How to Enable Horizontal Scrolling With a 3-Button Mouse

You may have a 3 buttons mouse with vertical scroll, but no physical horizontal scroll.

Here is how to have horizontal scroll emulation using SHIFT + vertical scroll.

## Installation

First install those two packages from source:

```
sudo slapt-get -i xbindkeys xautomation
```

* xbindkeys will be use to do an action of specific events (here shift + vertical scroll).
* xautomation will be use to generate the horizontal scroll events for X.

## Configuration

Vertical scrolling is seen as two buttons by X, by default it's button 4 and 5. (1 is left, 2 is right, 3 is middle) Horizontal scrolling is also seen as two __buttons', 6 and 7 by default.

So the idea is, for each SHIFT + button 4, a button 6 event should be generated. The same for button 5 and 7.

Create the file ~/.xbindkeysrc.scm with the following content:

```
; bind shift + vertical scroll to horizontal scroll events
(xbindkey '(shift "b:4") "xte 'mouseclick 6'")
(xbindkey '(shift "b:5") "xte 'mouseclick 7'")
```

Then create the file ~/.config/autostart/xbindkeys.desktop with the following content:

```
[Desktop Entry]
Encoding=UTF-8
Version=1.0
Type=Application
Name=xbindkeys
Exec=xbindkeys
```

This will run xbindkeys on every desktop login. You can run xbindkeys directly to have it work right now.

## Firefox

For this to work in Firefox too, you have to disable the action bound to shift+scroll which do back and forward action per default.

Go to about:config, search the key mousewheel.with_shift.action and assign it the value -1.
