# How to Install the Kernel Source

The kernel-source package is by default locked in gslapt, just like all other kernel related packages. This is to prevent users from unknowingly upgrading the kernel; it's easy to miss that kernel packages are about to be upgraded, when a multitude of other packages are going to be upgraded at the same time.

### Salix 14.1 and newer

To install the kernel-source package, in Salix 14.1 and newer use sudo . Open a terminal window and run:

```none
sudo slapt-get -u
```

and request to install the kernel-source package explicitly with slapt-get:

```none
sudo slapt-get -i kernel-source
```

That's it, the kernel-source package should be downloaded and installed when the download is finished.

Make sure the kernel-source package you are installing matches your current kernel. You can check the currently installed kernel packages with:

```
ls /var/log/packages/kernel-*
```

If the kernel-source package version does not match your current kernel, you need to upgrade your kernel packages first. See How to install a different kernel for how to do this.

=> /docs/user/install-different-kernel How to install a different kernel

### Salix 14.0 and earlier

In order to install the kernel-source package, open a terminal window, run

```
su
```

and provide your root password to become root. Update your package database (just to be sure):

```none
slapt-get -u
```

and request to install the kernel-source package explicitly with slapt-get:

```none
slapt-get -i kernel-source
```

That's it, the kernel-source package should be downloaded and installed when the download is finished.
